Relying Party Solution (#615)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/relying-party-endpoint.rst

Further details on the Relying Party Instance Initialization Request and Response are provided in the :ref:`Mobile Application Instance Registration Request` and :ref:`Mobile Application Instance Registration Response` sections, respectively.

Relying Party Integrity Validation Endpoint
----------------------------------------------

The Relying Party Integrity Validation Endpoint enables Relying Party Instances to prove their integrity, before obtaining an Access Certificate.

Relying Party Integrity Validation Request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The request uses the HTTP POST method with ``Content-Type`` set to ``application/json``.

The Integrity Validation Request includes the following HTTP header parameters:

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Parameter**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **alg**
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier.
      - [:rfc:`7515`]
    * - **kid**
      - Unique identifier of the JWK used by the Relying Party Instance to sign the Integrity Validation Request.
      - [:rfc:`7515`]
    * - **typ**

>       - It MUST be set to ``ivr+jwt``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set to ``rp-ivr+jwt``
```

    * - ``404 Not Found`` 
      - ``not_found``
      - The Relying Party Instance was not found.
    * - ``422 Unprocessable Content`` [OPTIONAL]
      - ``validation_error``
      - The request does not adhere to the required format.
    * - ``500 Internal Server Error``
      - ``server_error``
      - The request cannot be fulfilled because the Endpoint encountered an internal problem.
    * - ``503 Service Unavailable``
      - ``temporarily_unavailable``
      - The request cannot be fulfilled because the Endpoint is temporarily unavailable (e.g., due to maintenance or overload).

Relying Party Access Certificate Endpoint
----------------------------------------------

The Relying Party Access Certificate Endpoint enables Relying Party Instances to obtain an Access Certificate.

Relying Party Access Certificate Request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The request uses the HTTP POST method with ``Content-Type`` set to ``application/json``.

The Access Certificate Request includes the following body parameters:

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Parameter**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **csr**

>       - The CSR generated by the Relying Party Instance, encoded in the ``base64url`` format.

Reviewer: CSR must be included within the acronyms section, and referencing [rfc 2511](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2511)

.. include:: ../common/common_definitions.rst

.. _relying-party-endpoint:

> Relying Party Endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relying Party Endpoints
```

=========================

> The Relying Party MUST expose endpoints to support trust establishment and essential functionalities. This includes a trust endpoint (i.e., the Federation Endpoint) that MUST adhere to the OpenID Federation 1.0 specification to reliably establish the Relying Party's identity within the ecosystem. In addition, endpoints for handling the lifecycle of Relying Party Instances (i.e., by providing nonce generation, hardware key registration, integrity validation, and access certificate issuance) are also mandatory, although their specific implementation details are left to the Relying Party's discretion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Relying Party MUST expose  a predefined set of endpoints supporting all the features about trust evaluation and credential presentation, such as a trust endpoint adhering to the OpenID Federation 1.0 Wallet Architecture specification, facilitating the Relying Party's identity and metadata distribution. The endpoints for handling the lifecycle of Relying Party Instances (i.e., by providing nonce generation, hardware key registration, integrity validation, and access certificate issuance) are also mandatory, although their specific implementation details are left to the Relying Party's discretion.
```

> The Relying Party MUST expose  a predefined set of endpoints supporting all the features about trust evaluation and credential presentation, such as a trust endpoint adhering to the OpenID Federation 1.0 Wallet Architecture specification, facilitating the Relying Party's identity and metadata distribution. The endpoints for handling the lifecycle of Relying Party Instances (i.e., by providing nonce generation, hardware key registration, integrity validation, and access certificate issuance) are also mandatory, although their specific implementation details are left to the Relying Party's discretion.

Reviewer 2: I have some doubts about this MUST. It is not said that all RPs must necessarily expose these endpoints useful exclusively for proximity verification. I would make them mandatory only if they want to implement proximity

Reviewer 3: We agree with your comment. We have rephrased the sentence, please have a look at our [suggestion](https://github.com/italia/eid-wallet-it-docs/pull/615/files#r2022888902).

> The Relying Party MUST expose  a predefined set of endpoints supporting all the features about trust evaluation and credential presentation, such as a trust endpoint adhering to the OpenID Federation 1.0 Wallet Architecture specification, facilitating the Relying Party's identity and metadata distribution. The endpoints for handling the lifecycle of Relying Party Instances (i.e., by providing nonce generation, hardware key registration, integrity validation, and access certificate issuance) are also mandatory, although their specific implementation details are left to the Relying Party's discretion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Relying Party MUST expose a trust endpoint adhering to the OpenID Federation 1.0 Wallet Architecture specification, facilitating the Relying Party's identity and metadata distribution. In addition, in case the Relying Party supports proximity presentation, it MUST expose a set of endpoints for handling the lifecycle of Relying Party Instances (e.g., by providing nonce generation, hardware key registration, integrity validation, and access certificate issuance); their specific implementation details are left to the Relying Party's discretion.
```

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 20 50
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **HTTP Status Code**
      - **Error Code**
      - **Description**
    * - ``400 Bad Request``
      - ``bad_request``
      - The request is malformed, missing required parameters, or includes invalid and unknown parameters.
    * - ``403 Forbidden``
      - ``integrity_check_error``
      - The device does not meet the Relying Party's minimum security requirements.
    * - ``403 Forbidden``
      - ``invalid_request``
      - The provided challenge is invalid, expired, or already used.
    * - ``403 Forbidden``
      - ``invalid_request``
      - The signature of the Key Attestation is invalid.
    * - ``422 Unprocessable Content`` [OPTIONAL]
      - ``validation_error``
      - The request does not adhere to the required format.
    * - ``500 Internal Server Error``
      - ``server_error``
      - The request cannot be fulfilled because the .well-known Endpoint encountered an internal problem.
    * - ``503 Service Unavailable``
      - ``temporarily_unavailable``
      - The request cannot be fulfilled because the .well-known Endpoint is temporarily unavailable (e.g., due to maintenance or overload).

> Relying Party Integrity Validation Endpoint

Reviewer 2: Since this mechanism is identical to what was done to obtain the Wallet Attestation, also having the same endpoints, can we think of standardizing the text and perhaps creating a specific section to reference both for the wallet instance and for the verification app?

Reviewer: I would agree on this, howeveer there might be some changes between the flows in the future that may suggest to keep them separated in terms of section/file.

I agree that it would be beneficial to not copy/paste the same text but use refs to wallet solution section

Reviewer: I suppose to get this PR harmonized with https://github.com/italia/eid-wallet-it-docs/pull/623

Reviewer 3: Yes, we will update this PR accordingly soon.

Reviewer 3: Commit 5728b3a aligns this PR to #623.

In particular, the following aspects are no longer described in the section, but referenced on the external common page ("Mobile Application Instance Initialization") due to their similarities with the Wallet Solution:
- the initialization flow (both description and diagram);
- the common endpoints ("Relying Party Nonce Endpoint" and "Relying Party Instance Initialization Endpoint").

In addition, also the common technical details have been aligned for consistency.
